# TWIST
https://twist12345.herokuapp.com/users

1)	Team Members: Dan Baluan, Wes Nelson, Jordan Baumchen

2)	The main learning objective for this project was to apply knowledge that we had learned through the semester from our Programming II class by developing a website for the Kansas State Polytechnic TWIST Program. This was meant to enable the students to sign up and make available easier management tools of the website for the administrators/planners of this event.

3)	With falling behind due to the vulnerability issues we ran into, I had finally got my repository in good standings and began developing a majority of the back end of the website. I began developing the models of each entity and then moved on to working and setting up the routes/controllers for each entity/page. I followed up with developing the list page for all entities and moved on respectively to the create, update, delete, and then detail pages. Following those, I began working on tweaking the controllers to better accurately display the information that pertained to each entity and to enable more detailed information to be shown on each detail page. The next steps I took was developing a very bare “home page” with a participant form enabled, and upon submission, would redirect the student/participant to a submission received page. Throughout this project, I found myself bouncing around a lot from controllers, to detail pages, to views and so on doing small minor changes throughout the backend of the project.

4)	There were quite a few challenges throughout this project. To begin, I didn’t directly understand all the code that we had utilized within the express local library tutorial. Using that as a reference point and consulting with the professor made this process a lot easier as I was relearning material that was previously introduced in the Programming II class. To add onto the understanding of the code, there were a few areas where I had mixed variables being used or different versions of variables, and this in turn proved problematic while trying to fine tune things. This primarily took place with High Schools (highschools, highSchools, HighSchools, highschool_list, list_highschool, and so on). After correcting these issues, I began tackling other minor issues throughout the backend like correcting information being pulled and trying to tidy up the forms. While working with the forms, I began trying to implement options to fill a student’s interest field but was unable to completely get it working before the final presentation. With this feature specifically, there were issues with the programming accurately validating the results.

5)	One of the features that are currently incomplete is the delete page for all entities tied to schedules. This list includes topic, presenter, room, and session, and the primary reason for this is I didn’t want to enable deletion of those and potentially cause problems from the schedules. I would have liked to implement a “Cannot delete because X is in Schedule Y” but never actually got around to it. The main way that this feature is disable is instead of deleting the ID of the actual entity it is set to delete “some” id which ends up returning the delete function back empty. Another feature that never got implemented would be the interest of the students and similarly, the capacity of a room being applied to a schedule and being populated with students. Given more time to work on this project, I believe that these adjustments and improvements would have been attainable.

6)	If I had to start over on this project from step one, things I would do differently would be to collaborate with my team better and better tackle jobs instead of waiting last minute and trying to rush the development and finish of the project. Something else I’d do different is better use and develop the project in the earlier phases prior to tackling the actual development of the website. This would include setting up a list of variables for us all to use while development was in the work and to also better identify the process that users and admins would use while utilizing the website.
